Docs: GStreamer documentation (#1023)
OpenVisualCloud/Media-Transport-Library: ecosystem/gstreamer_plugin/README.md

Reviewer: **gstreamer1.0-plugins-ugly**: Includes plugins that might have licensing issues or are not considered to be of the highest quality " we **must** ensure that licenses are correct without an issues, please double check the code and leave only note about the information.

Author: we do don't worry 
This is a quote from 
https://github.com/GStreamer/gst-plugins-ugly

we don't use any ugly plugins in the gstreamer they are mentioned in plugins so i added them 
this comment is good for other reasons this dependency is unnecessary 

i removed unused plugin dependencies ugly / bad ^^

```

These packages include:
- **gstreamer1.0-tools**: Provides the `gst-launch-1.0` tool and other GStreamer utilities.
- **gstreamer1.0-plugins-base**: Contains the base set of plugins, which are essential for most GStreamer applications.
- **gstreamer1.0-plugins-good**: Includes a set of well-supported plugins that are generally considered to be of good quality.
By installing these packages, you will have all the necessary tools and plugins to run GStreamer applications and use the `gst-launch-1.0` tool with our plugins.

To run plugins, you need to pass the path to the plugins to your GStreamer application or load them directly.
In the case of `gst-launch-1.0`, the argument for this is `--gst-plugin-path`.
You can also move the plugins to the default plugin directory `$GSTREAMER_PLUGINS_PATH` instead (see [gstreamer-launch documentation](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/tools/gst-launch.html)).

```bash
export GSTREAMER_PLUGINS_PATH=/path/to/your/compiled/plugins
gst-inspect-1.0 --gst-plugin-path $GSTREAMER_PLUGINS_PATH mtl_st20p_rx
```

### 2.2. General arguments

> In GStreamer plugins there are general arguments that apply to every plugin.

Author: Yes fixed

In our pipelines, we will use the `$INPUT` variable to hold the path to the input video.

```bash
export INPUT="path_to_the_input_v210_file"

gst-launch-1.0 -v videotestsrc pattern=ball ! video/x-raw,width=1920,height=1080,format=v210,framerate=60/1 ! filesink location=$INPUT
```

#### 3.1.3. Pipline example for multicast `y210`

To run the raw video transmission plugin, we need to pass the MTL parameters responsible for initializing the MTL library.
To ensure the correct size of the buffer, we will use the `rawvideoparse` element in the case of `y210`.

The rest of rawvideo metadata will be passed via pad capabilities of the buffer.
```bash
# If you don't know how to find VFIO PCI address of your device
# refer to Media-Transport-Library/doc/run.md
export VFIO_PORT_T="pci_address_of_the_device"

# video pipeline y210 FHD 60fps on port 20000
gst-launch-1.0 filesrc location=$INPUT ! \
rawvideoparse format=v210 height=1080 width=1920 framerate=60/1 ! \
mtl_st20p_tx tx-queues=4 rx-queues=0 udp-port=20000 payload-type=112 dev-ip="192.168.96.3" ip="239.168.75.30" dev-port=$VFIO_PORT_T \
--gst-plugin-path $GSTREAMER_PLUGINS_PATH

> # video pipeline y210 FHD 60fps on port 20000

Author: One is looping but i think one example is enough

> # video pipeline y210 FHD 60fps on port 20000

Reviewer 2: you can left 2 if you find it useful, just add explanation to docs.

> # video pipeline y210 FHD 60fps on port 20000

Author: no >:(

# Run the receiver pipeline y210 FHD 60fps on port 20000
gst-launch-1.0 mtl_st20p_rx rx-queues=4 udp-port=20000 payload-type=112 dev-ip="192.168.96.3" ip="239.168.75.30" dev-port=$VFIO_PORT_R rx-pixel-format=v210 rx-height=1080 rx-width=1920 rx-fps=25 ! \
filesink location=$OUTPUT --gst-plugin-path $GSTREAMER_PLUGINS_PATH
```

This command sets up the receiver pipeline with the specified parameters and saves the received video to the specified output path.

## 4. SMPTE ST 2110-30 Raw audio plugins

Audio plugins for MTL that are able to send, receive synchronous raw audio via the MTL pipeline API.

### 4.1. Running the SMPTE ST 2110-30 transmission plugin mtl_st30p_tx

#### 4.1.1. Supported Parameters and Pad Capabilities

The `mtl_st30p_tx` plugin supports the following pad capabilities:

- **Formats**: `S16LE`, `S24LE`, `S32LE`
- **Sample Rate Range**: 44100, 48000, 96000
- **Channels Range**: 1 to 8

**Arguments**
| Property Name       | Type   | Description                                           | Range                   | Default Value |
|---------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------------|

> | retry               | uint   | Number of times the MTL will try to get a frame.      | 0 to G_MAXUINT          | 10            |

Reviewer 2: I think we have a bug, `retry` parameter is not "installed" with `g_object_class_install_property`. Same with  tx-samplerate and tx-channels, they are only negotiated with previous plugin in pipeline, can't be directly set and I guess they shouldn't.

Author: Oh right i only added it to the ST 20 
good catch 

its fine as it is i can also add with documentation :?

| tx-samplerate       | uint   | Sample rate of the audio.                             | [gst_mtl_supported_audio_sampling](#232-supported-audio-sampling-rates-gst_mtl_supported_audio_sampling) | 0 |
| tx-channels         | uint   | Number of audio channels.                             | 1 to 8                  | 2             |

#### 4.1.2. Example GStreamer Pipeline for Transmission with s16LE format

To run the `mtl_st30p_tx` plugin, you need to setup metadata (Here we are using pipeline capabilities).
Instead of using input video we opted for build-in GStreamer audio files generator.

```bash
# If you don't know how to find the VFIO PCI address of your device
# refer to Media-Transport-Library/doc/run.md
export VFIO_PORT_T="pci_address_of_the_device"

# Audio pipeline with 48kHz sample rate on port 30000
gst-launch-1.0 audiotestsrc ! \
audio/x-raw,format=S16LE,rate=48000,channels=2 ! \

> mtl_st30p_tx tx-queues=4 rx-queues=0 udp-port=30000 payload-type=113 dev-ip="192.168.96.3" ip="239.168.75.30" dev-port=$VFIO_PORT_T \

Reviewer 2: do we really need to specify rx-queues in tx mode?

Reviewer 2: seems like some imperfection of the design. Maybe we could pass something to gst_mtl_common_init_handle to specify mode (TX or RX)?

Author: That could as well be 

I assumed 16 to be a sweet spot we can change it later mby during the common handle patch :<

Author: Basically, when we will have the common handle we can decide what to do with the amount of queues but for now i would leave the 16 as a safe number ^^

Author: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5e7c5a9f-9b4b-45c3-8ac1-2aa6d1b93f53)

# refer to Media-Transport-Library/doc/run.md
export VFIO_PORT_R="pci_address_of_the_device"

# Set the output path
export OUTPUT="path_to_the_file_we_want_to_save"

# Run the receiver pipeline
gst-launch-1.0 -v mtl_st30p_rx rx-queues=4 udp-port=30000 payload-type=111 dev-ip="192.168.96.2" ip="239.168.75.30" dev-port=$VFIO_PORT_R rx-audio-format=PCM24 rx-channel=2 rx-sampling=48000 ! \
filesink location=$OUTPUT --gst-plugin-path $GSTREAMER_PLUGINS_PATH
```

## 5. SMPT SMPTE ST 2110-40 Ancillary Data Plugins

Ancillary data plugins for MTL that are able to send and receive synchronous ancillary data via the MTL API.

### 5.1. Running the SMPTE ST 2110-40 Transmission Plugin `mtl_st40p_tx`

#### 5.1.1. Supported Parameters and Pad Capabilities

The `mtl_st40p_tx` plugin supports all pad capabilities (the data is not checked):

- **Capabilities**: Any (GST_STATIC_CAPS_ANY)

**Arguments**
| Property Name       | Type   | Description                                           | Range                   | Default Value |
|---------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------------|

> | retry               | uint   | Number of times the MTL will try to get a frame.      | 0 to G_MAXUINT          | 10            |
> | tx-framebuff-cnt    | uint   | Number of framebuffers to be used for transmission.   | 0 to G_MAXUINT          | 3             |

Reviewer 2: I changed the parameters.
```suggestion
| tx-framebuff-cnt  | uint   | Number of framebuffers to be used for transmission.                      | 0 to G_MAXUINT          | 3             |
| tx-fps                   | uint   | Framerate of the video to witch the ancillary data is synchronized.  | 0 to G_MAXUINT          | 60           |
| tx-did                  | uint   | Data ID for the ancillary data.                                                              | 0 to G_MAXUINT          | 0             |
| tx-sdid                | uint    | Secondary Data ID for the ancillary data.                                           | 0 to G_MAXUINT          | 0             |
```

#### 5.1.2. Example GStreamer Pipeline for Transmission

To run the `mtl_st40p_tx` plugin, use the following command:

```bash
# If you don't know how to find the VFIO PCI address of your device
# refer to Media-Transport-Library/doc/run.md
export VFIO_PORT_T="pci_address_of_the_device"

# Ancillary data pipeline on port 40000

> gst-launch-1.0 -v mtl_st40p_tx tx-queues=4 rx-queues=0 udp-port=40000 payload-type=113 dev-ip="192.168.96.3" ip="239.168.75.30" dev-port=$VFIO_PORT_T retry=10 tx-framebuff-cnt=3 --gst-plugin-path $GSTREAMER_PLUGINS_PATH

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
gst-launch-1.0 -v mtl_st40p_tx tx-queues=4 udp-port=40000 payload-type=113 dev-ip="192.168.96.3" ip="239.168.75.30" dev-port=$VFIO_PORT_T  tx-framebuff-cnt=3 tx-fps=60 tx-did=67 tx-sdid=2 --gst-plugin-path $GSTREAMER_PLUGINS_PATH
```

# Gstreamer plugin for MTL

> ## Building the GStreamer plugins

Reviewer 3: I would add numbering of sections:
# -> 1.
## -> 1.1.
### -> 1.2.1.
etc.

Author: Done

- **Width Range**: 64 to 16384
- **Height Range**: 64 to 8704
- **Framerate Range**: 24, 25, 30, 50, 60, 100, 120

[More information about GStreamer capabilities (GstCaps)](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/gstreamer/gstcaps.html)

**Arguments**
| Property Name       | Type   | Description                                           | Range                   | Default Value |
|---------------------|--------|-------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|---------------|
| retry               | uint   | Number of times the MTL will try to get a frame.      | 0 to G_MAXUINT          | 10            |
| tx-fps              | uint   | Framerate of the video.                               | [gst_mtl_supported_fps](#video-formats-gst_mtl_supported_fps) | 0 |
| tx-framebuff-num    | uint   | Number of framebuffers to be used for transmission.   | 0 to 8                  | 3             |

#### Preparing Input Video

To send the video, you need to have an input video ready.
Here is how to generate an input video with `y210` format using GStreamer.

In our pipelines, we will use the `$INPUT` variable to hold the path to the input video.

> ```shell

Author: Done

# Gstreamer plugin for MTL

## Building the gstreamer plugins

```shell
cd Media-Transport-Library/ecosystem/gstreamer_plugin

> meson setup build

Reviewer 2: please use ./build.sh
